docs/README.md, before:

# Index of the documentation articles
- [Create and run a deployment](./build-deploy/README.md)
  - [Create a codefresh continuous deployment](./build-deploy/codefresh.md)
  - [Configure the Helm chart](./build-deploy/helm-configuration.md)
  - [Set up environments](./build-deploy/environments.md)
  - [Work with local deployments](./build-deploy/local-deploy/README.md)
    - [Debug your applications](./build-deploy/local-deploy/debug.md)
    - [Setting up Minikube](./build-deploy/local-deploy/minikube.md)
- [Create and configure applications](./applications)
  - [Generate a new application](./applications/harness-application.md)
  - [Override applications values and files](./applications/overridings.md)
  - [Configure a database](./applications/databases.md)
  - [Add configuration files to your application](./applications/resources.md)
  - [Add and use secrets](./applications/secrets.md)
  - [Application development](./applications/development)
    - [Backend development](./applications/development/backend-development.md)
      - [Run workflows](./applications/development/workflows-api.md)
    - [Frontend development](./applications/development/frontend-development.md)
- [Regenerate documentation from Helm values](./docs.md)
- Specific functionalities and applications
  - [Accounts: authorization and authorization](./accounts.md)
  - [Create and monitor Argo workflows](./argo-workflows.md)
  - [Events queue with Kafka](./events.md)
  - [User workspaces with JupyterHub](./jupyterhub.md)
  - [Send errors to Sentry](./sentry.md)
  - [Use the events queue to send notifications](./notifications.md)
- [Writing and running automated tests](./testing.md)

Commit message:

Add link toward the tutorial in the README.md

docs/README.md, after:

# Index of the documentation articles
- [Create and run a deployment](./build-deploy/README.md)
  - [Create a codefresh continuous deployment](./build-deploy/codefresh.md)
  - [Configure the Helm chart](./build-deploy/helm-configuration.md)
  - [Set up environments](./build-deploy/environments.md)
  - [Work with local deployments](./build-deploy/local-deploy/README.md)
    - [Debug your applications](./build-deploy/local-deploy/debug.md)
    - [Setting up Minikube](./build-deploy/local-deploy/minikube.md)
- [Create and configure applications](./applications)
  - [Generate a new application](./applications/harness-application.md)
  - [Override applications values and files](./applications/overridings.md)
  - [Configure a database](./applications/databases.md)
  - [Add configuration files to your application](./applications/resources.md)
  - [Add and use secrets](./applications/secrets.md)
  - [Application development](./applications/development)
    - [Backend development](./applications/development/backend-development.md)
      - [Run workflows](./applications/development/workflows-api.md)
    - [Frontend development](./applications/development/frontend-development.md)
- [Regenerate documentation from Helm values](./docs.md)
- Specific functionalities and applications
  - [Accounts: authorization and authorization](./accounts.md)
  - [Create and monitor Argo workflows](./argo-workflows.md)
  - [Events queue with Kafka](./events.md)
  - [User workspaces with JupyterHub](./jupyterhub.md)
  - [Send errors to Sentry](./sentry.md)
  - [Use the events queue to send notifications](./notifications.md)
- [Writing and running automated tests](./testing.md)
- [Tutorial: Writing a simple webapp with cloud-harness](./tutorials/simple-date-clock-application.adoc)
